---
layout: post
title: "Comeonin version 4"
date: 2017-09-03 15:59:26 +0700
categories: projects comeonin
---

Version 4 of Comeonin, a password hashing library for Elixir, was recently released.
The changes made in this version are summarized below.

* support for Argon2
* Argon2, Bcrypt and Pbkdf2 are all optional dependencies
  * these libraries can be used with Comeonin or on their own
  * on their own, they provide a lower-level and a mid-level api
* more scheduler-friendly implementation of Bcrypt
* additional higher-level functions
  * `add_hash` and `check_pass`
* improved statistics reporting

The following sections provide more details about these changes.

## Argon2 is now supported

Argon2, the winner of the 2015 [Password Hashing Competition (PHC)](https://password-hashing.net),
is now supported, as an optional dependency.

With Bcrypt and Pbkdf2, attackers can use GPUs, or other dedicated hardware,
to try hashing multiple passwords in parallel. Argon2, though, has been
designed as a memory-hard function, and its high use of memory makes it
highly resistant to GPU attacks.

To use Argon2, you need to be using a version of Erlang with dirty
scheduler support, which is enabled by default in Erlang 20.

## Algorithms are now optional dependencies

The three supported algorithms ([Argon2](https://github.com/riverrun/argon2_elixir),
[Bcrypt](https://github.com/riverrun/bcrypt_elixir) and
[Pbkdf2](https://github.com/riverrun/pbkdf2_elixir)) are now optional
dependencies.

This means that you need to choose which algorithm you want to use and then
also add that algorithm as a dependency. See the `Choosing an algorithm`
section in the [Comeonin](https://hexdocs.pm/comeonin/Comeonin.html)
documentation for more information about each algorithm.

## More scheduler-friendly implementation of Bcrypt

Version 1.0 of bcrypt_elixir uses dirty schedulers, making it a little
more scheduler-friendly than earlier versions. To use this version,
you need to be using a version of Erlang with dirty scheduler support,
which is enabled by default in Erlang 20.

If you are using an earlier version of Erlang, you will need to use
version 0.12 of bcrypt_elixir, which will continue to be maintained
for the foreseeable future.

## Additional higher-level functions

Two higher-level functions, `add_hash` and `check_pass`, have been added.

`add_hash` takes the password as input and returns a map with the password
hash added and the password set to nil. This can be used with the `changes`
map in an Ecto changeset, as in the example below.

{% highlight elixir %}
defp put_pass_hash(%Ecto.Changeset{valid?: true, changes:
    %{password: password}} = changeset) do
  change(changeset, Comeonin.Argon2.add_hash(password))
end
defp put_pass_hash(changeset), do: changeset
{% endhighlight %}

`check_pass` takes a map, usually an Ecto user struct, as input and returns
{:ok, user} (user being the map or user struct) or {:error, message}.

The following is an example of a function that can be called in the create
function of your session controller.

{% highlight elixir %}
def verify(attrs) do
  MyApp.Accounts.get_by(attrs)
  |> Comeonin.Argon2.check_pass(password)
end
{% endhighlight %}

## Improved statistics reporting

A `report` function has been added. This calls the dependency's Stats.report
function, which provides useful information about the time the algorithm
takes, and how it can be configured to take more or less time.

Increasing the time that a password hash function takes makes it more
difficult for an attacker to find the correct password. However, it
also inconveniences valid users. Depending on the nature of your
application, you might want the password hashing function to take
between 250 milliseconds and a second.

With Argon2, you also need to configure how much memory, and how much
parallelism, is used. See the Argon2.Stats documentation for more
information.

