---
layout: post
title: "Comeonin version 5"
date: 2019-02-13 12:55:06 +0700
categories: projects comeonin
---

Comeonin version 5 has just been released.

This release includes changes that will:

* help support other password hashing libraries
  * Argon2, Bcrypt and Pbkdf2 are already supported
* make it easier for authentication libraries to set password hashing requirements

## Upgrade guide

See the [upgrade guide](https://github.com/riverrun/comeonin/blob/master/UPGRADE_v5.md)
for information about upgrading to the latest version.

## Comeonin and Comeonin.PasswordHash behaviours

Comeonin now provides two behaviours, Comeonin and Comeonin.PasswordHash,
which password hashing libraries then need to implement.

This means that it is now easier to support other password hashing
libraries, in addition to Argon2, Bcrypt and Pbkdf2, such as
[this example](https://github.com/riverrun/legacy_pbkdf2),
which uses Comeonin with Plug.Crypto's Pbkdf2 implementation.

Using behaviours to provide a consistent API should make the password
hashing libraries easier to use, for developers, and easier to support,
for authentication library maintainers.

### Creating a library that implements the Comeonin behaviours

See [this guide](https://github.com/riverrun/comeonin/wiki/Implementing-Comeonin-behaviours)
for information about creating a password hashing library that implements
these behaviours.

## Argon2

Changes in version 2.0 of argon2_elixir:

* it implements the Comeonin and Comeonin.PasswordHash behaviours
* the default configuration values have been updated
  * in line with the latest
  [Argon2 IETF draft guidelines](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-irtf-cfrg-argon2-04)

### Use the Argon2.Stats module

In many cases, the default configuration values will be incorrect, or
inappropriate for the hardware you are using, or they might conflict with
other requirements you have. Therefore, it is important to follow the
guide in the `Argon2.Stats` module, using the `report` function, to
set the correct configuration values for your app.

### Low memory servers

The default memory allocation value is now 128 MiB (from 64 MiB in verion 1).

If you are running a server with a low amount of memory, you will probably need
to reduce the m_cost, to 16 (64 MiB) or 15 (32 MiB), or allocate more memory
to the server.
